# Milestone 4


### What changes did you decide to implement given the time limit, and why do you think this is the best thing to focus on?

For milestone 4 our team chose to make several minor improvements to our app. These improvements included fixing a bug that was created from changing the layout of our table, improving the design of the line chart, changing the layout of the Help tab, and improving the functionality of animating changes year-over-year in the map tab.

##### Fixing Bugs
In milestone 3 we changed the layout of the table on the Single City tab from displaying only a single year to displaying all the years in a scrollable table. The new layout created a bug in ten cities that caused the table to throw an error instead of properly rendering. This issue was noticed after milestone 3 and we felt this was an important task to focus on as it effects the general usability of the app. We determined that it was a data cleaning issue that was causing the bug and thus a relatively easy thing to fix. This was a very helpful task as it helped to clean our data even further and to slightly reduce the size of data file. During this process we also noticed three of our cities were out of alphabetical order due to some renaming we did during our data cleaning and so we were also able to rectify this issue.

##### Improving line chart
The original line chart was generated by `ggplot2` and for this milestone we changed it to a `plotly` graph. Changing our plot to `plotly` greatly increases the level on interaction our user can have with the plot as they can now hover to see specific values, zoom in on ranges, and interact with the plot in other ways.
During milestone 3 we changed how users interacted with our line plot by allowing the user to select the crime types with a checkbox instead of a dropdown. This was a great improvement as the user could now select which crime types they wanted to display on the plot. However, this change caused a visual issue because when another crime was selected it would re-colour all of the lines different colors, which could be confusing to the user. We corrected this by setting the colours of each crime type to a specific colour. Now, when you select, for example, aggravated assault, the line is always green. We also selected colours from the colour brewer palette as we wanted to choose colours that are visually appealing and easy to difference between.


##### Changing Layout of Help Tab
In milestone 3 we added a Help tab to make our app more descriptive and easier to use. We didn't really like the design of the layout which had a empty sidebar and had the text in the main layout portion. We changed the design so the text was centred and incresed the font size. Now the Help tab is easier to read and more visually appealing.

##### Changing Animation on the Map Tab
In milestone 3 we added the ability to animate the map tab to watch year-over-year crime rates. We thought this would be a helpful aid for users who wished to visualize the rise and fall of crime rates over time. Unfortunately, the previous version of the animation was too slow to be that useful, so we've sped it up (and had it loop automatically). We believe these changes will make it more likely that the user will find value in this feature.  


#### If you were to make the app again from scratch (or some other app in general), what would you do differently?
Our team did a good job of writing a reasonable proposal and sticking to our usage cases. We spent a lot of time in the beginning thinking about our usage cases and then translating that to operations we knew we had the skill set to achieve. This was very valuable as our group did not encounter any larger issues during implementation and ensured that our app was designed with a purpose. During the feedback session some of the other groups seemed to struggle with this more where they made great visuals but lacked some degree of purpose, we think our project flowed so easily because of how much time we spent on the design before even starting to code.

For this app specifically one thing we could have done differently is adding another tab that did a state level comparison. We designed our app to start at a national scale and then be able to filter down to the details of a specific city. It would have been interesting to add a tab in between the national and city level to have a state level comparison, then you could see how your city ranks within your own state. This would have fit within our usage cases in terms of our app appealing to decision makers at various levels of government. 

We also could have let the user use the national map to as a filter for city or state graphs. Again, this would aid in our intended use case of a policy maker starting out looking at the national level and then zooming in to the local level.



#### What were the greatest challenges you faced in creating the final product?
There were a few design items that we were not able to achieve due to the difficulty of the task and the project time constraints.

1.
We wanted to change the design of the time slide bar based on feedback we recieved from two different people during the feedback session. Currently as you move the bar back and forth it highlights the portion behind the selection. We would like to have this highlight removed so it is more intuitive that you are selecting a single value instead of a range. Unfortunately we could not figure out how to change this. The slide bar widget didn't have an option to change this, so we would have had to write our own function to create a more personalized widget for our task.

2.
We wanted to add the population bars to the legend on the plot in the Single City tab but was not able to implement this. This seemed to be a simple task but we were not able to create a legend with the look we wanted. We feel we dealt with this as best as we could by giving the user the ability to select the items individually and thus they can see the item being drawn when after they click the corresponding box as well as adding the hover option allows them to quickly determine what the bars are. We feel we were able to make minor changes to our general design to make this less of an issue.

3.
We wanted to add a legend in the map tab to show what the size of the circles meant. However we didn't do this for the following reason: rape and homicide rates are relatively lower than aggrevated assault and robbery rates, so if you just selected one or both of those crimes with consistent scaling you couldn't see the circles at all. In order to fix this, we artificially scaled up those rates for sizing the circles when only those crimes are selected. Because we made this design choice, we don't have a consistent scale to display. We don't think this is a huge problem because we allow the user to see the exact crime rates in the tooltip when you hover over each city.  